template/README.md, before:

# The Kitchen Sink Studio

A “[kitchen sink](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33779296/what-is-exact-meaning-of-kitchen-sink-in-programming)” is a showcase of APIs and functionality. This is the example project that we at Sanity HQ for demos. Hence, it will change and evolve over time with new feature releases.

This starter is great for demo purposes, either to evaluate Sanity for your own use, or when you want to offer it as part of a project for your clients.

You can bootstrap a new project from this template by following this link to [sanity.io/create](https://www.sanity.io/create?template=sanity-io%2Fsanity-template-kitchen-sink).

## What you have

Concepts covered in this starter are:

- How to use the Studio‘s page builder to create landing pages, and present them in a web frontend
- Edit blog posts with side-by-side web-previews, can be configured to [Gatsby Preview](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) for real-time previewing in production and not just local development
- How to manage SEO metadata like fields for Open Graph meta-tags
- How to set up navigation for structured content, which allows for proper decoupling and omni-channel
- Custom embedded objects in rich text for Instagram posts, social media videos, LaTeX math etc.
- [Field validations](https://www.sanity.io/docs/validation)
- Custom [slugify functions with promises](https://www.sanity.io/docs/slug-type#custom-slugify-function-e1531d9d041b)
- Examples of custom document and document type lists using [structure builder](https://www.sanity.io/docs/overview-structure-builder)
- Example of [Google Optimize](https://optimize.google.com/optimize/home/) A/B-test facility
- Custom workflow using [Document Actions API]('https://www.sanity.io/docs/custom-workflows)
- Custom asset sources for Unsplash and AI-generated person photos
- …and more

Technologies:

- A blazing frontend of landing pages and a blog with [Gatsby.js](https://gatsbyjs.org)
- Structured content using [Sanity.io](https://www.sanity.io)
- Global deployment on [Netlify](https://netlify.com)

## Quick start

1. Clone this repository
2. `npm install` in the project root folder on local
3. `npm run dev` to start the studio and frontend locally
   - Your studio should be running on [http://localhost:3333](http://localhost:3333)
   - Your frontend should be running on [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
4. `npm run build` to build to production locally

## Enable real-time content preview on development

1. Go to your [project’s API settings on manage.sanity.io](https://manage.sanity.io/projects/<#< sanity.projectId >#>/settings/api) and create a token with read rights.
2. Rename `.env.development.template` to `.env.development` and paste in the token: `SANITY_READ_TOKEN="yourTokenHere"`.
3. Restart the development server (`ctrl + C` and `npm run dev`).

If you want to turn off preview you can set `watchMode: false` in gatsby-config.js. If you just want to preview published changes you can set `overlayDrafts: false` in gatsby-config.js.

## Enable real-time preview outside of development

In order to have live previewing available outside of the `npm run dev` cycle you will have to set it up yourself.

The easiest way would be to utilize [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/dashboard/sites/create). This will give you a deployment of the Gatsby web app set up to provide the same live preview as you have locally. A guide for setting this up can be found at https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/sanity/getting-started/. Note that this is a paid service from Gatsby.

For the 'Web preview' tabs in the Studio editors to work with a remote live preview instance, please remember to update the `baseUrl` value in `studio/resolvePreviewUrl.js`.

Should you want to host Gatsby in live preview yourself we have also included a Dockerfile and (.dockerignore) as a starting point in the web/ folder. Deploying that container is outside the scope of this example. There are many guides online on how to do that.

## Deploy changes

Netlify automatically deploys new changes commited to master on GitHub. If you want to change deployment branch, do so in [build & deploy settings on Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/docs/continuous-deployment/#branches-deploys).

## Stuck? Get help

[![Slack Community Button](https://slack.sanity.io/badge.svg)](https://slack.sanity.io/)

Join [Sanity’s developer community](https://slack.sanity.io) or ping us [on twitter](https://twitter.com/sanity_io).

Commit message:

added caveat about demo purposes

template/README.md, after:

# The Kitchen Sink Studio

A “[kitchen sink](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33779296/what-is-exact-meaning-of-kitchen-sink-in-programming)” is a showcase of APIs and functionality. This is the example project that we at Sanity HQ use for demos. Hence, it will change and evolve over time with new feature releases.

This starter is great for demo purposes, either to evaluate Sanity for your own use, or when you want to offer it as part of a project for your clients.

Because this starter is used for demo purposes, you will find that not all fields in the Studio has been wired up to the example frontend. This is not intented for use in production.

You can bootstrap a new project from this template by following this link to [sanity.io/create](https://www.sanity.io/create?template=sanity-io%2Fsanity-template-kitchen-sink).

## What you have

Concepts covered in this starter are:

- How to use the Studio‘s page builder to create landing pages, and present them in a web frontend
- Edit blog posts with side-by-side web-previews, can be configured to [Gatsby Preview](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) for real-time previewing in production and not just local development
- How to manage SEO metadata like fields for Open Graph meta-tags
- How to set up navigation for structured content, which allows for proper decoupling and omni-channel
- Custom embedded objects in rich text for Instagram posts, social media videos, LaTeX math etc.
- [Field validations](https://www.sanity.io/docs/validation)
- Custom [slugify functions with promises](https://www.sanity.io/docs/slug-type#custom-slugify-function-e1531d9d041b)
- Examples of custom document and document type lists using [structure builder](https://www.sanity.io/docs/overview-structure-builder)
- Example of [Google Optimize](https://optimize.google.com/optimize/home/) A/B-test facility
- Custom workflow using [Document Actions API]('https://www.sanity.io/docs/custom-workflows)
- Custom asset sources for Unsplash and AI-generated person photos
- …and more

Technologies:

- A blazing frontend of landing pages and a blog with [Gatsby.js](https://gatsbyjs.org)
- Structured content using [Sanity.io](https://www.sanity.io)
- Global deployment on [Netlify](https://netlify.com)

## Quick start

1. Clone this repository
2. `npm install` in the project root folder on local
3. `npm run dev` to start the studio and frontend locally
   - Your studio should be running on [http://localhost:3333](http://localhost:3333)
   - Your frontend should be running on [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
4. `npm run build` to build to production locally

## Enable real-time content preview on development

1. Go to your [project’s API settings on manage.sanity.io](https://manage.sanity.io/projects/<#< sanity.projectId >#>/settings/api) and create a token with read rights.
2. Rename `.env.development.template` to `.env.development` and paste in the token: `SANITY_READ_TOKEN="yourTokenHere"`.
3. Restart the development server (`ctrl + C` and `npm run dev`).

If you want to turn off preview you can set `watchMode: false` in gatsby-config.js. If you just want to preview published changes you can set `overlayDrafts: false` in gatsby-config.js.

## Enable real-time preview outside of development

In order to have live previewing available outside of the `npm run dev` cycle you will have to set it up yourself.

The easiest way would be to utilize [Gatsby Cloud](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/dashboard/sites/create). This will give you a deployment of the Gatsby web app set up to provide the same live preview as you have locally. A guide for setting this up can be found at https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/sanity/getting-started/. Note that this is a paid service from Gatsby.

For the 'Web preview' tabs in the Studio editors to work with a remote live preview instance, please remember to update the `baseUrl` value in `studio/resolvePreviewUrl.js`.

Should you want to host Gatsby in live preview yourself we have also included a Dockerfile and (.dockerignore) as a starting point in the web/ folder. Deploying that container is outside the scope of this example. There are many guides online on how to do that.

## Deploy changes

Netlify automatically deploys new changes commited to master on GitHub. If you want to change deployment branch, do so in [build & deploy settings on Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/docs/continuous-deployment/#branches-deploys).

## Stuck? Get help

[![Slack Community Button](https://slack.sanity.io/badge.svg)](https://slack.sanity.io/)

Join [Sanity’s developer community](https://slack.sanity.io) or ping us [on twitter](https://twitter.com/sanity_io).
